Science Commons Material Transfer Agreement(SC DF-NS 1.0)NOTICE: CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE INFORMATION PROVIDED, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ITS USE.1. 	IntroductionThis Science Commons Material Transfer Agreement and any attachment that references it (collectively, the "Agreement") is entered into between the Provider and the Recipient (or the "Parties", as further identified in the implementing letter), and governs the exchange and use of the materials designated by the Parties. This Agreement may be released in multiple versions.  Only the version expressly referenced by the parties shall apply, even if subsequent or alternative versions are released by Science Commons.2. DefinitionsCapitalized terms used in this Agreement have the meaning defined below. Plural and singular forms may be used interchangeably."Clinical Use" means use in humans to treat or diagnose any disease or condition, including, but not limited to, use in clinical trials."Commercial Use" means selling or offering for sale:  (i) a product that contains the Materials, (ii) a service that involves using or supplying the Materials, or (iii) both of the above. "Investigator" means the principal investigator employed by Recipient who is responsible for controlling and supervising research activities in which the Materials are used."Materials" means tangible materials that are transferred subject to the Agreement, as may be more specifically described in an attachment, and Unmodified Products. "Modification" means a change to the Materials resulting in novel properties or a combination of the Materials with other materials, except that extraction or purification, by itself, will not be considered a Modification."Provider" means the Party that provided the Materials."Recipient" means the Party that received the Materials."Research Use" means experimental activities directed to discovery or development, but excluding any Commercial Use or Clinical Use. "Scale Up" means to produce substantial additional quantities of the Materials."Specified Field of Use" means the field of use as defined in the attachment to this Agreement. "Unmodified Product" means: i) the progeny (if an organism, including a virus) or subclone of the Materials, ii) a product expressed or secreted by the Materials, or iii) a subunit, structure, or portion of the Materials; but in each case excluding Recipient's contribution to any Modifications.3. Authorized Uses and LimitationsThe Recipient agrees to use the Materials only in accordance with the following terms and conditions.  a) Use Limitations	i) The Recipient shall not permit or engage in any Clinical Use or Commercial Use of the Materials. 	ii) The Recipient shall not use the Materials in manufacturing products for sale.	iii) The Recipient shall permit use of the Materials only under the control and direction of the Investigator. 	iv) The Recipient shall not permit or engage in any use of the Materials for any purpose other than a Research Use within the Specified Field of Use.  The Recipient shall notify the Provider if Recipient wishes to use the Materials outside of the Specified Field of Use, and the Recipient must obtain the Provider's additional written consent for such changed or additional use.b) Production of Additional Materials The Recipient shall not Scale Up the Materials without the prior written consent of the Provider.c) Distribution Recipient shall not distribute, transfer, or permit third parties to access the Materials, or any Modifications to the extent containing original Materials or Unmodified Products, except with the prior permission of the Provider.  If a third party wishes to receive Materials, Recipient may notify such third party that the Materials may be available from Provider.  d) Term and TerminationUnless otherwise specified, the term of the Agreement shall begin on the date it is executed by both Parties and shall continue until terminated. This Agreement shall automatically terminate in the event that the Recipient commits a material breach of the terms of this Agreement, or if the Recipient becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or fails to carry on business in the ordinary course.If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Recipient shall return or dispose of the Materials and Modifications, as directed by the Provider. Otherwise, the Recipient may elect to retain the Materials and Modifications, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.4. General Terms and Conditionsa) This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein, and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings, agreements, or representations, whether written or oral.b) Except for the rights expressly granted herein, neither party grants any other rights or licenses, whether express or implied, under patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret. As between the parties, each retains all right, title, and interest in works and inventions made by its personnel, and nothing herein shall be construed to transfer ownership of any invention, patent, patent application, or copyright.  With respect to tangible materials, the Provider retains ownership and title to the Materials, and each party retains ownership and title to its respective material contribution to Modifications.c) Each party shall be solely responsible for complying with all laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances, including, but not limited to, regulations and guidelines relating to the use, storage, or disposal of biological materials in research, as applicable to its own activities.  The Recipient agrees and represents that it shall comply with all applicable export laws, rules, and regulations in connection with any use of the Materials.d) TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE PROVIDER DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER IMPLIED, EXPRESS, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE PROVIDER MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT THE MATERIALS DO NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENT, COPYRIGHT, TRADEMARK, OR OTHER THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. e) Except to the extent prohibited by law, Provider shall not be liable, and Recipient shall be solely responsible, for any damages, costs, or liabilities suffered or incurred by Recipient or a third party due to or arising from the use, storage, transfer, or disposal of the Materials, including Modified Materials, by Recipient, except, to the extent permitted by law, when caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Provider.f) This Agreement may only be amended by a written instrument executed by the parties.  No delay or failure to enforce any provision shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to enforce this Agreement with respect to a separate or continuing breach.    g) Recipient represents that Investigator and other personnel, contractors, collaborators, and agents who are given access to the Materials have binding obligations to Recipient to protect the Materials in accordance with this Agreement, and Recipient agrees to use reasonable efforts to notify them of their obligations hereunder. The Recipient agrees to notify Provider promptly if it becomes aware of any loss or unauthorized use of the Materials.h) Any notices which are required or permitted to be given shall be provided to the other Party at its designated address, or such other address as a Party may provide by written notice. Notices sent by U.S. mail shall be deemed effective three (3) business days after deposit. All other notices shall be effective when actually delivered.   CREATIVE COMMONS NOTICECreative Commons is not a party to this Agreement, and makes no warranty whatsoever in connection with the materials. Creative Commons will not be liable to you or any party on any legal theory for any damages whatsoever, including without limitation any general, special, incidental or consequential damages arising in connection to this Agreement. Except for the limited purpose of indicating to the public that the materials are available under this Agreement, Creative Commons does not authorize the use by either party of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any related trademark or logo of Creative Commons without the prior written consent of Creative Commons. Any permitted use will be in compliance with Creative Commons' then-current trademark usage guidelines, as may be published on its website or otherwise made available upon request from time to time. For the avoidance of doubt, this trademark restriction does not form part of this Agreement.Creative Commons may be contacted at http://creativecommons.org/